Using the Test Ether, you just got for the Rinkeby Test Net,
you can now deploy your DAPp to the test net.
In this video, I'll show you how to do that.
It's actually pretty simple.
By the end of this video,
my goal is to have you deploy contract to the test network,
make some transactions, and view them on Etherscan.
To start, go back to Remix.
This should still have the smart contract from earlier.
If not, go back and grab the code again,
or type what you see here.
From there, switch to MetaMask and make sure you're on the Rinkeby Test Net,
and that there are some ether in your account.
Great, looks like I'm all set up.
Now, switch back to Remix and deploy your contract.
You should see creation of message pending show up in your Remix terminal.
What's happening here is that it's waiting for you
to confirm the transaction for MetaMask.
Open MetaMask backup and you'll see a transaction labeled,
Contract Deployment with a specific gas fee associated with it.
The gas fee is the cost of making a transaction
and deploying contract is considered a transaction.
We'll cover more on this later.
You can hit Confirm to accept the transaction.
Now, look back to the Remix terminal again.
At first, there'll be a link to this transaction on Etherscan,
and shortly after, you'll see that this message has been confirmed.
The reason for this delay is that the transaction is waiting for
confirmation from the network of nodes that are supporting the test network.
Once completed, this confirmation status will
show up in both the terminal and in MetaMask.
Click on the link to view this transaction on the test network using Etherscan.
What you'll see here is that the transaction you made is live on the test network.
You can view all the details from Etherscan
just like any other transaction you looked up before.
You can also use the contract link to view the details of your contract.
It shows the balance,
the transactions, the contract creator, and more.
Down here is the details of all the transactions,
which right now is just one.
There's also the block that your transaction is on and
other information like how long ago the transaction was made.
In the Code tab, you won't see much yet
because this isn't considered a verified contract.
You can click the link to see the steps needed to verify the contract,
but we won't be doing that here.
If you do get the contract verified,
you'll see it show up under the Blockchain tab by clicking Verified Contracts.
So, hopefully now, you have a contract published to the Ethereum test network.
You can make a few transactions by setting messages if you'd like,
and you'll see each of those appeared on the test network too.
Remember, each time, you'll need to confirm the transaction using MetaMask,
wait a little for it to get confirmed,
and then be able to view it on Etherscan.
This can be a slow process,
and that's something we'll talk a little more about soon.
Either way, it's cool to see your transactions going live so easily.
The last thing I'll point out is that under input data,
it doesn't actually show the message that you typed,
it shows it in a different format.
To view it how you originally typed it,
click on the drop-down and select UTF-8.
Once you do that, you'll see the original message you sent with the transaction.
Using the same pattern,
you could also deploy contracts to the main network.
In this case, all you need to do is switch your MetaMask account to the main network,
deploy another contract, and go through this exact same process again.
One reason we won't be deploying to the main network
much is that it costs you ether to do this,
and to get ether on the main network costs real money.
The process is almost completely the same as deploying to the test network,
so you'll still know pretty much how to do it for yourself.
But having to pay for every deployment,
especially early on without knowing some of the security risks,
can be limiting to your experience as a developer.
For that reason, I'll point out ways that you could deploy to the main network,
but we'll generally avoid that process while we're learning.
That wraps up this video for now.
Hopefully at this point, you can now deploy a contract from Remix to the test network,
and can investigate the transactions you make for yourself.